So in order for us to understand I'm just going to look quickly at this life cycles component that I've
written.
It's just called life cycles right.
That's all it is.
It's just a component called life cycles which is a class component extending the react component inside
of here.
Are The Possible Life Cycle methods that we want to look at and inside of each one.
I'm just logging the name of the life cycle that it is so that when it gets called and we look in our
console we'll see the order in which they're getting fired.
Now before we take a look into what these life cycles are there's actually a diagram we can look at
on the react Web site and on this diagram it will show us in this graph form when each method fires
depending on what phase the component is in.
So the first phase we gonna look at is the mounting phase the mounting phase is the phase when the component
is being put on the DOM for the first time so when it's mounting when it's in the mounting phase it
starts before our component is actually on our dot right before it's on our page when it starts mounting
it first looks at the component.
So for us our life cycles component and then it sees the constructor and it calls the constructor first.
So inside of our constructor we have our super right and the super is pretty much just a method on all
classes inside of their constructors that say if I'm extending from some other class component I want
to pull in all of their methods and all of their functionality right.
Which might sound complicated but all you need to know is that what that does is it allows are class
component to have access to these lifecycle components because you can see it as if these lifecycle
components and when they get called in the order of all this functionality is actually originally bound
to this react component.
This react class component that we need to borrow from.
So we're essentially saying extend me all of that functionality into my class component called lifecycle
and then the constraint.
So the constructor and we call super.
It's like okay this is when I want you to give me all that functionality right.
So that I can bind it all to my class component inside of the constructor as well is when we can declare
our state.
Right.
So when we call this dot state we do it inside of our constructor specifically for this reason because
this is when our state becomes initialized on our class so the constructor gets called first for this
reason.
So that our components other lifecycle methods if they need to use the state are aware of the state
because it's initialized inside of our constructor after the constructor call it then calls are render
method and the render method is when our component tells javascript.
OK.
This is what I want you to display in terms of HDMI out.
This is also where any prop values get evaluated in the HMO.
So because we're passing in that text string this is when javascript like oh I'm calling the render
method on this class.
I'm also going to evaluate the value of this prop stock text and then turn it into something that I
can display in the mill and that's how we're able to see that string value that would get passed in
as a prop or anything for that matter.
This evaluation is happening inside of our render call after the render comes when react actually updates
the dawn.
Right.
Or it makes updates to our component but the main thing here is where reacts like OK now that I know
what the component looks like because of the render and I know what state and whatever things are on
the class component because the constructor I'm not going to put it on the page I'm going to mount it.
And then once it mounts the component did mount lifecycle method gets fired and inside of here is where
it's like OK.
The component has mounted its in its base state right.
It's properly evaluated then I'm gonna call my lifecycle method component did mount and if we look at
our application we'll see that that's the order that it happens.
We get the constructor first then the render gets called and then our component did mount gets called.
And usually this is where after we've loaded our base their class component inside of a component did
mount is where we start to do things like our API calls.
If you remember from our earlier instance where we made an API call to get all the users for our monster's
Rolodex and the reason for this is because we want to load the base component first before we start
fetching data and updating our component so that it looks different from the base state right.
Because we don't know how long that API call might take latency might be slow your connection might
be poor but this is the order and how we should leverage this lifecycle method is that we wait for the
base component to mount and then we're like OK let's use our component did mount method to update it
into its next state.
And this next state this updating phase is the next phase of our component after the base mounted state
is on our Don so let's take a look at the next phase the updating phase.